Begin Episode	 'marks the beginning of a new episode'

Begin Scene	 'marks the beginning of a new scene (e.g., One day ...)'

Bodypart	 'marks bodyparts (hand of Mary)'

Composed of	 'one thing is composed of something (lake of fire, streets of gold, river of fire)'

Generic Genitive	 'marks generic genitival Noun-Noun relationships (John's boss, Mary's prayers, etc.)'

Group	 'marks a group of something (herd of sheep, flock of geese, crowd of people, etc.)'

Iteration	 'marks iteration (Mary read the book Iteration 3/many.)'

Kinship	 'marks blood relationships (brother, mother, etc.) and legal relationships (wife, mother-in-law, etc.)'

Made of	 'one thing is made of another thing (house of bricks, table of wood, etc.)'

Name	 'marks someone's name (King name David)'

Nationality	 'a Hebrew man'

Owner	 'marks a possessor (book of John)'

Part-Whole	 'the front of the boat'

Quantity	 'marks quantity (tea Quantity cup)'

Region of Authority	 'marks the region that someone governs (king of Israel, governor of Tiberius, etc.)'

Subgroup	 'marks a specific subgroup of a group - this is used with cardinal numbers, fractions, 'many' and 'several' (John read two/half/many/several of the  books.)'

Title	 'marks someone's title (Jesus title Christ)'

about	 'concerning (told him about ...)'

above	 'on top of something, but not touching'

across	 'location on the other side of'

after	 'the time following'

after	 'the time following (used only in NPs)'

against	 'one thing is next to and touching something else (John leaned against the wall.)'

ago	 'used in oblique NPs (Many years ago ...)'

along	 'location along a path'

although	 'although X happens, Y will happen'

among	 'in the midst of'

around	 'the area around something'

at	 'at the location'

at	 'time at (at midnight)'

because	 'the following event is the reason for the preceeding event (John walked to school because his car was at the shop.)'

because	 'the following object is the reason for the event'

before	 'time before an event'

before	 'time before an event (used only in NPs)'

behind	 'location behind someone'

below	 ''

beside	 'next to, spacially'

between	 'involving a and b (agreement between a and b)'

between	 'location in the middle of a and b'

by	 'to accomplish something by doing something else (John won the game by hitting a home run.)'

by	 'nearby something'

close	 'to be close to something (AP)'

down	 'down - used only in the Analyzer'

during	 'time is during the stated event'

even-if	 'the preceeding will happen even if the following happens'

even-though	 'contrary to fact, even-though A, B still happened'

except	 'the following event or thing is an exception (follow no gods except me)'

far-away-from	 'far in distance from something else'

for	 'for a duration of time (for 3 days)'

for	 'because of (I will pay you for your work)'

for	 'beneficiary topic marker (For each kind of animal, bring a male and a female into the ark.)'

from	 'from the time specified'

if	 'if (conditional)  (If you go to the party, you might see Mary.)'

if	 'if (hypothetical)  (If you were to go to the party, you would see Mary.)'

if	 'if (counterfactual) (If you had gone to the party, you would have seen Mary.)'

in	 'located inside something, literally (like a basket, or a house)'

in	 'located within  the boundaries of an area (in the city)'

in	 'generic location'

in	 'in a group (John is in the army.)'

in	 'at the time (in the morning)'

in	 'in a liquid, sand, dirt, etc.'

in	 'to be or put in a written or other medium (write in a book, in the history)'

in	 'abstract directed towards someone (faith in God)'

in	 'in a vision or dream (God spoke to Abram in a vision.)'

in-front-of	 'location in front of something'

in-order-to	 'the preceeding was done to accomplish the following'

inside	 'within an object'

instead	 'X did A instead of doing B (John read this book instead of watching a movie.) (always same agent as matrix)'

instead	 'X did Y instead of A doing B  (Esther 9:1 The Jews killed their enemies instead of their enemies killing them.) (always different agent than the matrix)'

instead	 'used with NPs like "He went [to X [instead-of Y]]" or "He hit [X [instead-of Y]]"'

into	 'location towards somewhere'

into	 'into a container or enclosed area'

just-like	 'to do something in the same way as some other action'

later	 'amount of time after an event'

more-than	 '(I like this more-than I like that)'

near	 'location close to something'

of-possession	 'possession - used only in the Analyzer'

off	 'off - used only in the Analyzer'

on	 'on top (highest part) of something'

on	 'on the surface of something (not necessarily the top)'

on	 'generic location (on the left side)'

on	 'along (walk on the path)'

on	 'at the time of (on that day)'

on	 'connected to (apple on the tree)'

onto	 'motion on to something'

out	 'out - used only in the Analyzer'

outside	 'outside an object'

over	 'on top of'

past	 'movement past a location (Mary walked past the house.)'

since	 'since the time'

so	 'the preceeding was done so that the following can/could be done (John studied so that he could pass the test.)'

so	 'result, with no intent (He lost his money so he had to leave)'

so	 'the preceeding was or should be done resulting in the following being done (John covered his face so that he would not catch a cold.)'

than	 'than - used only in the Analyzer'

through	 'path through someplace'

through	 'by means of (God predicted through a prophet ...)'

throughout	 'located everywhere within some place'

to	 'to - used only in the Analyzer'

toward	 'path toward someplace'

toward	 'movement is toward an object or place'

under	 'location under something'

unless	 'the previous would not happen unless the following does'

until	 'time until'

until	 'time until (used on in NPs)'

up	 'used only in the Analyzer'

when	 'when + event specifies the time of the main event'

when	 'when-because + event specifies the time and reason for the main event'

whenever	 'one event is done whenever another event is done (I see Mary whenever I go to the library.)'

while	 'time during the following event'

with	 'accompaniment (John went with Frank)'

with	 'possessing things (John went to California with many things.)'

without	 'to do something without using something'

without	 'to do something without someone accompanying'

