accept	 'to accept from someone something'

accept	 'to decide that a particular person has the necessary qualifications for a particular role'

accuse	 'to accuse someone of something'

act	 'to do a generic action'

admire	 'to admire something (John admired the painting.)'

admire	 'to admire someone for doing something (John admired Mary for being brave.)'

advise	 'to give someone advice'

agree	 'to agree with someone, have a similar opinion (John agreed with Mary.)'

agree	 'to agree to do something'

agree	 'to agree that someone else should do something (John agreed that Mary should read the book.)'

allow	 'to allow something to happen'

amaze	 'to amaze somebody'

annoy	 'to make someone feel slightly angry and unhappy'

anoint	 'to anoint someone (for a special purpose)'

answer	 'direct speech in response to a question (Jesus answered the scribes, "...")'

answer	 'God answers a prayer'

answer	 'to answer a question (Steve answered the question.)'

appear	 'to become visible (suddenly an angel appeared)'

appear	 'to look like something to someone (the angel appeared like a flame) (CHANGE THIS TO 'look-like')'

appear	 'to make oneself visible to someone'

appoint	 'to choose someone for a position (The president appointed John in order to lead the council.)'

approve	 'to approve of something'

argue	 'to argue with someone, quarrel about something (John argued with Mary.)'

argue	 'to argue or debate with someone about something (John argued with Mary about who should wash the dishes.)'

arrest	 'to arrest someone for doing something'

arrive	 'to arrive at a location from somewhere'

ask	 'to ask someone a question (Steve asked Mary a question.)'

ask	 'to request something from someone (John asked Mary for some bread.)'

ask	 'to ask someone to do something (Mary asked John to read a book.)'

ask	 'to ask someone about something (John asked Mary about the problem.)'

ask	 'to ask someone a question with direct speech (John asked Mary, "Why ... ?")'

ask	 'to ask someone a question using indirect speech (John asked Mary if she went to the library.)'

attach	 'someone attaches something to something else'

attack	 'an army attacks a country or city'

attack	 'an animal attacks a person or another animal'

attack	 'a person or small group of people attack a person'

attack	 'a man attacks a woman in a sexual way (attempts to rape)'

attend	 'to go someplace regularly'

attend	 'to go to something just once (John attended the conference.)'

avoid	 'to stay away from something'

bake	 'to cook something in an oven'

baptize	 'to dunk a person in water; the act symbolizes Christ's death and resurrection '

be	 'generic stative "be"; used with object complements (The problem is that John already left.).'

be	 'equative (John is the man who was here.)'

be	 'class membership (John is a human.)'

be	 'attributive (John is tall.)'

be	 'existential (There are lions in Africa.)'

be	 'locative (John is under the table.) - an adposition is always included with this sense'

be	 'benefactive (This book is for John.)'

be	 'temporal (The party was in the afternoon.)'

be	 'accompaniment (John is with Mary.)'

be	 'date (The date was June 2nd.)'

be	 'name (The man's name is John.)'

be	 'social role (John is a doctor.)'

be	 'kinship role (John is Mary's brother.)'

be	 'time (The time was 4 pm.)'

be	 'ambience (The weather is hot.)'

be	 'depiction (This story is about John.)'

be	 'substance (The house is made of wood.)'

be	 'partitive (The leg is part of the body.)'

be	 'age (John is 20 years old.)'

be	 'birthplace (e.g. John is from California.)'

be	 'to be like something, to resemble something (John is like Peter.)'

beat	 'to repeatedly hit a person or animal in order to punish him'

beat	 'to repeatedly hit something with your fists (for purposes other than punishment)'

beat	 'to repeatedly hit and/or kick a person or animal in order to hurt him'

become	 'attributive (John's clothes became white)'

become	 'class membership (John became a man)'

become	 'social role (John became a servant)'

become	 'equative (John's descendants became a nation.)'

become	 'kinship (John became a father)'

become	 'ambience (The weather became a storm)'

beg	 'to anxiously or urgently ask someone to do something'

begin	 'a temporal event begins (the feast begins on this day)'

believe	 'to believe what someone says'

believe	 'to believe in, or have faith in someone'

believe	 'to believe that an event happened or will happen (John believes that Mary will go to the party.)'

belong	 'to belong to someone'

bend-over	 'to bend over in order to get lower, perhaps to see or touch something that is low (John bent over to look under the table.)'

betray	 'complex - to help a person's enemies arrest the person'

birth	 'to give birth to something'

bite	 ''

blame	 ''

bleed	 'to bleed'

bless	 'to give someone a blessing, usually by God'

bless	 'complex - to prosper someone and/or cause favorable circumstances for someone'

blow	 'the wind blows'

blow	 'a person blows with mouth'

blow	 'to move something by blowing (the wind/boy blew the paper)'

boil	 'to boil something in a hot liquid'

born	 'to be born (John was born in California.)'

borrow	 'to borrow from someone something'

bother	 'to bother someone'

bow	 'to bow down before someone.  This is the position typically assumed before a king.  When someone prays, the word 'kneel' is used to describe the position.'

break	 'to break something into multiple pieces'

break	 'to break a bone (John broke his leg.)'

break	 'to break a law, disobey'

break	 'something breaks (intransitive)'

breathe	 'to take air into your lungs and let it out again'

bring	 'to carry something to someone or someplace'

bring	 'to have someone accompany someone else to someplace'

bring	 'to bring or lead a living animal to someone (The disciple brought the colt to Jesus.)'

build	 'to construct a building or artifact'

build	 'to found, start, "build" something like a country, city or organization'

burn	 'to burn something with fire'

burn	 'something burns (intransitive) (The house burned.)'

burst	 'a container bursts open from a force inside'

bury	 'to bury a dead person'

bury	 'to bury an object someplace'

buy	 'to purchase something from someone with some amount of money'

calculate	 'to find out how much something will cost by using numbers'

call	 'to summon someone'

call	 'to give someone or something a name (He called him Peter.)'

camp	 'to camp'

capture	 'to take someone as prisoner'

care	 'to care for someone or some animal's physical needs'

care	 'to have concern about someone or something'

care	 'to care for, be in charge of something, like a house'

carry	 'to carry something from somewhere to somewhere'

carry	 'to carry a disease or germs'

carry	 'to carry something with you on a regular basis (Mary carried her purse.)'

catch	 'to catch a person or animal after chasing them (The policeman caught the thief.)'

catch	 'to catch something that is falling (John caught the vase.)'

catch	 'to catch a fish with a net (John caught a fish.)'

catch	 'to catch a disease (John caught a cold.)'

catch	 'to catch something that has been thrown to you (John caught the ball.)'

cause	 'to cause something to happen'

celebrate	 'to celebrate in general, not for a specific holiday or event'

celebrate	 'to celebrate a specific holiday or event (Our family celebrated Christmas.)'

change	 'to become something else (stick changed into a snake)'

change	 'to change your mind about something ('mind' is not included in the semantic representation)'

change	 'someone changes something into something else (Jesus is able to change stones into bread.)'

change	 'to change something so that it's different (e.g. They want to change the laws.)'

change	 'to change something from one thing to another thing'

chase	 'to run after someone with the intention of catching him and harming him'

chase-away	 'to run after someone with the intention of scaring him away'

cheat	 'to cheat someone'

choose	 'to pick a person or thing from among a set of choices'

choose	 'to choose someone to do something (John chose Mary to organize the party.)'

choose	 'to choose to do something (John chose to study for the test.)'

circumcise	 'complex - to cut off the foreskin of a boy or man'

clean	 'to clean something'

climb	 'to climb something like a tree or mountain'

climb	 'a child playfully climbs on an adult (The baby climbed on his father.)'

close	 'to close something like a door, gate, or window'

close	 'to close something like a book'

close	 'to close one's eyes'

close	 'to close one's mouth'

collect	 'to collect taxes'

comb	 'to comb hair'

come	 'to move to somewhere (toward the action) from somewhere'

come-out	 'to come out from some place (John came out of the library.)'

comfort	 'to comfort someone'

command	 'to command someone to do something'

command	 'direct speech (Yahweh commands you, 'you must ...')'

compare	 ''

complain	 'to complain to someone about something'

confess	 'to confess one's sins to someone'

confess	 'to confess doing something (Mary confessed that she took the book.)'

confuse	 ''

consist	 ''

contain	 'to contain or hold a liquid'

continue	 'continue - used only in analyzer'

control	 'to control someone or something'

cook	 ''

cough	 'to cough when you have a cold'

count	 'to count something'

cover	 'to cover someone with a blanket'

cover	 'to cover the outside of something with something'

cover	 'something (like a cloud) covers something'

cover	 'something is covered with something'

crawl	 'to move on your legs or stomach'

create	 'to create something (from nothing)'

crush	 ''

cry	 'to cry with tears'

cry	 'to cry out in desperation to someone, John cried to Mary, "Please come back."'

curse	 'to curse someone (verbal abuse)'

curse	 'to put a curse on someone'

cut	 'to cut something'

cut-off	 'to cut-off something (like John the Baptist's head)'

cut-down	 'to cut down something (a plant)'

dance	 'to dance'

deceive	 'to cause someone to believe something that is not true'

decide	 'to determine a course of action for yourself (John decided to go to class.)'

decide	 'to make a decision about someone else (John decided that Mary should go to class.)'

declare	 'someone in authority pronounces that an event is to happen'

defeat	 'one army or country defeats another army or country in a war'

defeat	 'one individual defeats another individual in a fight'

defend	 'to fight on behalf of someone against someone'

defile	 'something defiles or makes something unholy'

deliver	 'to deliver a message, letter, or package to someone'

demand	 'to demand something'

describe	 'to describe something to someone'

deserve	 'to deserve to do something'

destroy	 'to destroy something, annihilate it'

die	 'to stop being alive'

dig	 'to dig a hole or grave in the ground (John dug a hole.)'

dip	 'to dip something into a liquid'

disagree	 ''

discover	 'to find out something'

divide	 'to divide something into 2 or more sections'

do	 'to do a generic action'

doubt	 'to think that an event probably didn't happen (John doubts that Mary read that book.)'

dream	 'to dream about something'

dream	 'to have a dream while sleeping (John dreamed.)'

dream	 'to dream that something happens (John dreamed that he went to Oregon.)'

drink	 'to drink something'

drop	 'to drop something intentionally'

drown	 'complex - to drown, to die in water'

dry	 'to dry something with a towel, to remove water with a towel (John dried the dishes.)'

earn	 ''

eat	 'to consume something (food)'

embarrass	 'to embarrass someone (John embarrassed Mary by forgetting her name.)'

encourage	 'to encourage someone'

encourage	 'to encourage, urge someone to do something'

end	 'a temporal event ends (the feast ends on this day)'

enjoy	 'to enjoy an event (John enjoys walking on the beach.)'

enter	 'complex - to go into some place'

enter	 'complex - to come into some place (The king entered the palace.)'

escape	 'to get away from someone that is chasing you (John escaped from the police.)'

escape	 'to get out of some place (John escaped from prison.)'

escape	 'to escape from something dangerous (John escaped from the fire.)'

examine	 'to look at something closely, look at it in detail'

exist	 ''

expect	 'to expect (hope) someone to do something (John expects his son to do well on the test.)'

expect	 'to expect or plan to do something yourself (John expects to read that book next week.)'

explain	 'to explain or describe something to somebody so that it makes sense (John explained the problem to Mary.)'

explain-how	 'to explain or describe how people do something (Mary explained how people cook turkeys.)'

fail	 ''

fall	 'to fall downward onto or into something after being dropped, knocked over, or thrown (John threw the stone and it fell into the lake.)'

fall	 'a person unintentionally drops to the ground due to tripping, fainting, sleeping, etc. (but not dying) (John passed out and fell to the ground.)'

fall	 'to accidentally fall down onto something (Mary fell onto the chair.)'

fall	 'to fall down dead'

fast	 'complex - to not eat food in order to spend the time praying'

fear	 'to be afraid of something'

feed	 'complex - to give someone food'

feel	 'to feel good, or bad or sick, etc'

fight	 'to fight a war against someone'

fight	 'to fight an individual, as in a fist-fight'

fight	 'animals fighting each other (The roosters fought each other.)'

fill	 'to fill up something (a container) with something'

find	 'to find something as a result of looking for it'

find	 'to accidently find something'

find-out	 'to find out some bit of knoweldge (he found-out that ...)'

finish	 'finish - used only in the analyzer'

float	 'to rest on top of the water'

flow	 'the movement of liquids in a river'

fly	 'to fly in the air like a bird or insect by flapping one's wings'

fold	 ''

follow	 'to follow behind someone who is walking'

follow	 'to follow the example of someone, try to be like that person'

forbid	 'to forbid someone to do something'

force	 'to force/require/cause something to happen'

forget	 'to forget something'

forget	 'to forget to do something'

forget	 'to forget that an event occurred'

forgive	 'to forgive someone for something'

forgive	 'to forgive a sin (God forgives sins.)'

forgive	 'to forgive someone generically, the fault is not mentioned (Mary forgave John.)'

free	 'to free a slave or prisoner'

frighten	 ''

frown	 'complex - to make a confused exression with one's face'

gain	 ''

gather	 'to gather people or animals together'

gather	 'to gather wheat, grain, wood, etc.'

gather	 'people or animals gather together'

get	 ''

get-up	 'to get up out of bed'

give	 'to transfer ownership of something to someone (John gave Mary a gift.)'

give	 'to physically transfer something to someone, not giving ownership (Mary gave/handed a book to John.)'

give	 'to give an abstract to someone (faith, widsom, power, a name, etc.) (God gives us peace.)'

give-attention	 'X gives his/her attention to Y, usually after Y seek-attention of X.'

glean	 'to pick up the crops that the harvesters left behind'

go	 'to move from one place to another place'

goodbye	 'to take leave of, "say goodbye" (used by the person who is leaving)'

govern	 ''

grab	 'to quickly take hold of something'

greet	 'to greet someone'

grow	 'a non-human becomes larger (The tree grew.)'

grow	 'a human becomes larger (The boy grew up.)'

grow	 'a plant "grows" somewhere, not stressing increase in size'

grow	 'to grow a crop (John grew barley.)'

guard	 'to guard something from an enemy, protect it (The soldiers guarded the city.)'

guard	 'to control the traffic into and out of some place (Soldiers guarded the farm.)'

hang	 'something hangs on something (The towel hung on the wire.)'

hang	 'complex - to kill someone by hanging them'

hang	 'to hang something somewhere (He hung the towel on the wire.)'

happen	 'something happens'

harvest	 'to harvest something (crops)'

hate	 'to hate someone or something'

have	 'to own or possess something'

have	 'to have something (like a family) (not ownership)'

have	 'to have a body part, like an eye or wings'

have	 'to have an abstract such as faith, joy, authority, etc.'

have	 'to have a disease or illness (John has a cold.)'

have	 'to have a part (A car has wheels.)'

have	 'to have an event (John had a party.)'

have	 'to have servants, slaves, people who work for someone (John has a maid.)'

have	 'something is at some place (The store has food.)'

heal	 'complex - to heal someone from something'

hear	 'to hear something (a sound)'

hear	 'to hear some information (John heard that Mary read a book.)'

hear	 'to hear an event as it occurs (John heard Mary talking to a friend.)'

hear	 'to hear about something (John heard about the problem.)'

help	 'to assist someone generically (Mary helped John through many difficult problems.)'

help	 'to assist someone with a specific event (Mary helped John read a book.)'

hide	 'to hide something from someone (John hid the book from Mary.)'

hide	 'to hide yourself due to danger or fear (John hid behind a tree.)'

hide	 'to hide from someone that is looking for you (John hid from Mary.)'

hit	 'to strike someone with a fist'

hit	 'an animal charges and hits another animal with its head'

hit	 'something that was thrown hits something else'

hold	 'to hold something in your hand (John held the book.)'

hold	 'to hold something in your arms (Mary held the baby.)'

hold	 'to hold hands (John held Mary's hand.)'

honor	 'to honor someone or something'

hope	 'to hope that something happens (John hopes that Mary will come to class.)'

hope	 'to hope to do something (John hoped to go to class.)'

hug	 'to hug someone'

hunt	 'to hunt an animal in order to kill it and eat it (John hunted a bear.)'

hurt	 'to hurt someone, cause them physical pain'

hurt	 'some body part hurts (John's foot hurts.)'

ignore	 'to not pay attention to someone or something'

improve	 ''

include	 ''

increase	 'to grow in quantity'

influence	 'to influence somebody to think or act differently'

inherit	 'complex - to inherit from somebody something'

insist	 'to insist that something happens'

insult	 'to insult someone'

introduce	 ''

invite	 'to invite someone to do something (The king invited many people to come to the palace.)'

join	 'to join someone in doing something'

join	 'to join two things together into one'

judge	 'to judge someone or something to determine truth/innocence'

jump	 'to jump from someplace to someplace'

jump	 'to move quickly because you're startled or surprised'

jump-down	 'to jump down from a high place to a lower place'

keep	 'to keep something (in your possession)'

keep	 'to keep something (a covenant or promise)'

keep	 'to keep an animal (Mary kept a dog in a pen.)'

kill	 'to kill a person or animal'

kiss	 'to kiss someone on the cheek affectionately, not on the lips romantically'

kneel	 'to kneel, this is the position used when praying.  The word 'bow' is used for the position one assumes before a king.'

knock	 'to knock on someone's door in order to let that person know that you want to enter his house'

knock-down	 'to knock a person or animal down so that it's no longer standing on its feet'

know	 'to be acquainted or familiar with a person or place (Mary knew John.)'

know	 'to be sure about something (Mary knew that John went to the library.)'

know	 'to know a bit of knowledge such as a person's name, the meaning of a word, etc. (Mary knew a secret.)'

know	 'to know about something (John knows about the problem.)'

know-how	 'to know how to do something (John knows how to solve the problem.)'

laugh	 'to laugh at a joke'

laugh	 'to laugh at someone (derisively)'

lead	 'to physically lead people on a journey to someplace'

lead	 'to lead a people (spiritually or politically)'

lead	 'something (like a road) leads someplace (pD)'

lean	 'to support yourself in a sloping position against something (John leaned against the wall.)'

learn	 'to learn something generic (John learned some things at school.)'

learn	 'to learn something particular (John learned that Columbus discoverd America.)'

learn	 'to learn about something (John learned about the people in Africa.)'

learn-how	 'to learn how to do something (Mary learned how to cook.)'

leave	 'to leave a place'

leave	 'to leave a person or animal'

leave	 'to not bring something (Mary left the book at home.)'

lick	 'to move one's tongue across the surface of something to taste it, wet it, or clean it (The dog licked the apple.)'

lie	 'to tell a lie to someone, to say false things to someone'

lie	 'something is in a state of lying on something'

lie-down	 'to move from a standing position to a prone position'

lie-down	 'to be in a prone position (John was lying down all afternoon.)'

lift	 'to lift something'

light	 ''

like	 'to like a person or thing (John likes candy.)'

like	 'to like some event (John likes going to the park.)'

like	 'to like someone doing something (Mary likes it when John washes the dishes.)'

limp	 'to walk with a limp'

listen	 'to listen or hear something or someone'

listen	 'to listen/hear/obey someone'

live	 'to dwell somewhere'

live	 'to have life'

loan	 'to loan something to someone expecting to get it back (Mary loaned some money to John.)'

look	 'to consciously focus your eyes on something'

look	 'to appear a certain way (John looked happy/sad/excited.)'

lose	 'to lose an abstract such as one's life or job'

lose	 'to lose a battle or war'

lose	 'to lose something such as a coin or a sheep'

love	 'to love someone (romantically)'

love	 'to love someone (not romantically)'

love	 'to love a thing (John loves that book.)'

make	 'to create an artifact'

make	 'to make someone do something'

make	 'to make something abstract, like a law or a promise'

manage	 'to direct, control, or ovesee a business or operation  (John managed the strore.)'

mark	 ''

marry	 'to marry someone'

marry	 'to be married to someone'

mean	 'a word means something (another word) (Mara means bitter.)'

mean	 'a word means something (a clause) (Mene means, "God has counted the days of your life.")'

measure	 ''

meet	 'to meet someone for the first time (John met a new woman at church.)'

meet	 'to meet someone that you know, have a meeting (Mary met a friend at the library.)'

meet	 'to get together for a meeting (The people met at the library.)'

melt	 'to melt due to intense heat, like a candle (The candle melted.)'

menstruate	 'a woman's monthly bleeding'

miss	 'to miss someone, long for them'

mix	 'to mix together something into something'

mix	 'one liquid mixes with another liquid'

mourn	 'to mourn because someone died'

mourn	 'to mourn because times are bad (During the Great Depression many people mourned.)'

move	 'to change residence from one place to another place (Mary moved from Dallas to Portland.)'

move	 'to physically move something from one place to another place (Mary moved the chair from one room to another room.)'

move	 'to move a body part (John moved his foot.)'

move	 'a person or animal moves from one location to another (John moved from this chair to that chair.)'

move-aside	 'to move something out of the way'

murder	 'to murder someone, (not kill, which is generic)'

name	 'to give to someone a name (as a parent does to a newborn child)'

need	 'to require someone to do something  (Mary needs John to wash the car.)'

need	 'to require something  (Mary needs that book.)'

need	 'to require oneself to do so something (John needs to wash the car.)'

notice	 ''

nurse	 'a mother nurses a baby'

obey	 'complex - to do whatever a law or commandment requires (John obeyed the law.)'

obey	 'complex - to do what someone in authority says to do (John obeyed the captain.)'

obtain	 'to get something (into your possession)'

offend	 ''

open	 'to open a container such as a box, bottle, envelope, etc.'

open	 'to open a door, gate, or window'

open	 'to open a book'

open	 'to open one's eyes'

open	 'to open one's mouth'

oppose	 'to oppose someone'

order	 'to order someone to do something'

oversee	 'to watch over, be in charge of'

owe	 'to owe someone something'

own	 'to own something'

pass	 'to go by a location'

pay	 'to give (a hired) someone money for something (a service)'

pay	 'to give someone money for something (goods)'

pay	 'to pay taxes'

persuade	 'to cause someone to decide to do something that they initially didn't want to do (John persuaded Mary to read that book.)'

persuade	 'to cause someone to agree that the speaker should do something (John persuaded Mary that he should read that book.)'

pick	 'to pick, or harvest something off a plant'

pick-up	 'to pick something up'

pity	 'to feel sorry for someone'

plan	 'to plan to do something (John planned to go to the state fair.)'

plan	 'to plan something (John planned the state fair.)'

plan	 'to plan for someone else to do something (John planned for Mary to go to the fair.)'

plant	 'to plant something'

play	 'to play like children'

play	 'to play a musical instrument'

plead	 'to ask/beg/argue with someone to do something'

please	 'to please someone'

plot	 'complex - to plan to do bad things to someone'

plow	 'complex - to plow a field in preparation for planting crops'

point	 'to point in some direction (The sign pointed to the north.)'

point	 'to point at someone (Mary pointed at Bob.)'

pour	 'to pour a liquid or powder from something into something'

pour-out	 'a liquid pours out of a container.  (The water poured out from the broken cup.) (intransitive)'

praise	 'to praise someone for doing something'

pray	 'to pray to someone, usually God or a god, about something'

pray	 'to pray for a specific event (Mary prayed that God would protect her.)'

pray	 'to pray, direct speech'

preach	 'to preach a message'

preach	 'to preach about something (John preached to the people about God.)'

prepare	 'to ready oneself for something to happen (John prepared to go to class.)'

prepare	 'to prepare something like a meal (Mary prepared the dinner.)'

preserve	 ''

pretend	 'to do something falsely in order to deceive'

prevent	 'to stop something from happening'

proclaim	 'complex - to proclaim to someone something, assert that it is true'

produce	 'to produce something (emphasized product)'

produce	 'to produce children'

promise	 'to promise someone to do something'

prophesy	 'complex - to prophesy to someone something'

protect	 'to protect someone from something (John protected Mary from the alligator.)'

protect	 'to protect someone from an event (John protected Mary from being shot.)'

prove	 'to prove to someone that something is true'

pull	 'an animal pulls a plow, wagon or chariot'

pull	 'a person pulls a fish net into a boat'

pull-off	 'to pull something in order to detach it'

pull-out	 'to pull something out of something else'

punish	 'to punish someone for doing something (bad)'

punish	 'to punish a child for disobeying'

pursue	 'to chase or follow someone in order to catch them and attack them. This concept is complex but not explicated; it's always matched with 'follow.''

push	 'to push something'

push-away	 'to push something away from you'

put	 'to place something somewhere'

put-away	 'to put something back into its place'

put-on	 'to put on clothes (John put on a suit.)'

race	 'to race someone to somewhere'

raise	 'to lift up something'

raise	 'to raise someone (from the dead)'

read	 'to read something'

read	 'to read about something (John read about the people of India.)'

realize	 'to realize (suddenly come to know something happened) something'

rebuke	 'to rebuke, scold someone for something'

receive	 'to receive something from someone (John received a book from Mary.)'

receive	 'to receive an abstract such as joy, power, authority (The prince received his authority from the king.)'

recognize	 'to recognize someone'

redeem	 'to buy back from someone something'

refuse	 'to refuse to do something'

regret	 'to regret doing something'

rejoice	 'to be joyful'

release	 ''

remember	 'to remember an event (John remembers going into the store.)'

remember	 'to remember to do something'

remember	 'to remember a person (John remembers Steve.)'

remember	 'to remember a thing (John remembers that book/place.)'

remind	 'to cause someone to remember some bit of knowledge'

remind	 'to remind someone to do something'

rent	 'to let someone use something in return for money (John rented his house to a person.)'

repair	 'to repair something'

repent	 'complex - to repent of something (sins)'

replace	 ''

represent	 ''

require	 'to require someone to do something'

respect	 'to think highly of someone'

rest	 'to rest'

return	 'to go back (away from action) to a place where you were previously'

return	 'to come back (towards center of action)'

return	 'someone returns something to its previous place (John returned the book to the shelf.)'

return	 'to go back to a person that you'd seen previously (John returned to his friend.)'

return	 'to return something that was borrowed or stolen (John returned the book to his friend.)'

reward	 'complex - to reward someone for doing something'

ride	 'to ride something (animal or vehicle) from somewhere to somewhere (APSD)'

rise	 'to move upwards, like smoke'

rise	 'the sun, moon or a star rises'

roast	 'to cook something over a fire'

ruin	 ''

rule	 'to reign over a group of people'

run	 'to run from one place to another place (John ran to the car.)'

run	 'to run in order to escape from someone or something that is chasing you (John ran from the dog.)'

run	 'to run away from something because you're afraid of it (John ran from the snake.)'

run	 'someone's nose runs when he has a cold'

run-down	 'to run down something such as a hill (John ran down the hill.)'

run-up	 'to run up something such as a hill (John ran up the hill.)'

sacrifice	 'to sacrifice to someone (God) something'

satisfy	 ''

save	 'to save a person or animal from something dangerous or death'

save	 'to save money for future use'

save	 'God saves people from their sins'

say	 'direct speech, to say something to someone (John said to Mary, "...")'

say	 'non direct speech (He said many things to the people.)'

say	 'indirect speech (John said that ... )'

say	 'a law or command says something (The law says that ...)'

say	 'a book or text says something (The Scriptures say, "...")'

say	 'a law or command says something (The law says, "...")'

scatter	 'someone spreads things in many different directions'

scold	 'to say bad things to a child because the child did something bad, to angrily criticize a bad child'

scream	 'to shout loudly due to pain or fear (Mary screamed.)'

search	 'to look for something'

see	 'to see someone or something  (Mary saw a bird.)'

see	 'to witness an event as it occurs  (Mary saw John walking to school.)'

see	 'to observe something, to see evidence that something has occurred (John saw that Peter was sick.)'

see	 'to see a vision'

seek-attention	 'X tries to gain the attention of Y in order to talk to him/her.'

seem	 ''

sell	 'to sell something to someone'

send	 'to send a person or thing to do some task'

send	 'to send a letter, message, or package to someone'

send	 'to send some thing to someone (not a letter)'

separate	 'to separate something from something'

serve	 'to work for  someone'

set	 'the sun or moon sets'

set-up	 'to set up, construct or prepare something like a tent'

sew	 'to sew something (clothing)'

sex	 'to have sexual relations with someone'

shake	 'something shakes (intransitive)  (The ground shook.)'

shake	 'to shake something (transitive)'

shake	 'a body part (knees, hands, etc.) shakes because of fear'

share	 'to share something with someone'

shave	 'to cut the hair from a man's face'

shine	 'something shines (The stars shine.)'

shine	 'to shine on something (The light shined on the wall.)'

shoot	 'to shoot something at something (John shot the deer with an arrow.)'

shout	 'to shout something to someone, a direct quote'

shout	 'to shout something (The students shouted the pledge.)'

shout	 'what animals do when they make a loud noise (e.g., The lion roared.  The dog barked.  The rooster crowed. etc.)'

shout	 'to shout something, an indirect quote  (The people shouted that ...)'

show	 'to show something to someone'

show	 'to show someone that something is true or that something happened'

show	 'to show something abstract such as a vision or dream to someone'

show-how	 'to show someone how to do something (John showed Mary how to walk with crutches.)'

show-how	 'to show someone how someone else does something (John showed Mary how Bill walks with crutches.)'

sigh	 'complex - to breath deeply, the person is disturbed or tired or sad'

sign	 'complex - to write one's name on an official document'

sin	 'complex - to disobey God, do things that God hates'

sing	 'to sing a song (Mary sang a song.)'

sing	 'to sing (without specifying what was sung) (Mary sang.)'

sink	 'complex - to sink in a liquid, to go under the top of the liquid (intransitive)(e.g., Luke 5:7 The boat began to sink.)'

sit	 'to be in the seated position (John was sitting on a chair.)'

sit-down	 'to move from a standing position to a seated position (John sat down on a chair.)'

sit-up	 'to move from a lying position to a sitting position (John sat up.)'

sleep	 'to sleep'

sling	 'to sling something at someone'

smell	 'to smell something, sniff the air around the object (Mary smelled the rose.)'

smell	 'to smell either good or bad (The perfume smells good. The garbage smells bad.)'

smell	 'to smell like something (Mary smells like a rose.)'

sneeze	 'to sneeze when you have a cold'

speak	 'generic word for speaking to someone about something (John spoke to Mary about the conference.)'

speak	 'to speak a language'

spend	 'to pay money (or goods) for something'

spill	 'to accidently spill the contents of a container onto something'

spit	 'to spit at someone or something'

spread	 'to spread, become more widespread (Israelites spread)'

spread	 'to spread something (information)'

stand	 'to stand upright (John stood in front of the door.)'

stand-up	 'to move from a sitting position to a standing position'

stare	 'to look at something for a long time'

starve	 'to starve because of no food'

stay	 'to remain somewhere'

steal	 'to steal something from someone'

store	 'to keep something (goods) somewhere (for later use)'

struggle	 'to fight, argue, etc against someone (in a non-physical way)'

study	 'to carefully read or review something in order to learn it'

succeed	 ''

suffer	 'to be miserable'

suggest	 'to advise someone to do something'

surprise	 ''

surround	 'something surrounds the outside of something'

swallow	 'to swallow something'

swear	 'to make an oath in someone's name to do something'

sweat	 'to have drops of salty liquid come from the skin'

sweep	 ''

swim	 ''

take	 'to move something from one place to another place (John took the book to the library.)'

take	 'to take someone to someplace (John took Mary to the concert.)'

take	 'to take an animal to someplace (John took the sheep to the meadow.)'

take-away	 'to take something away from someone else (John took the book away from Mary.)'

take-away	 'to take something abstract away from someone else'

take-away	 'to take something away from a place (John took the garbage away from the house.)'

take-off	 'to remove clothing (John took off his shoes.)'

take-out	 'to take one thing out of another thing (John took the pizza out of the oven.)'

talk	 'to talk to someone about something'

taste	 'to taste some food'

taste	 'food tastes good, or tastes like something'

teach	 'to teach someone about something (He taught them about cars.)'

teach	 'to teach someone something such as a language or a lesson (John's parents taught him a lesson.)'

teach	 'to teach someone something (John taught his son that he should work hard.)'

teach-how	 'to teach someone how to do somthing (Mary taught John how to cook.)'

tear	 'to tear something'

tear	 'something tears (intransitive) (The nets tore.)'

tell	 'indirect speech (John told Mary that Steve went to school.)'

tell	 'to tell someone to do something (Mary told John to read a book.)'

tell	 'to tell someone about something (Mary told John about the conference.)'

tell	 'to tell something to someone (Mary told a story to John.)'

tempt	 'complex - to tell someone to do bad things'

test	 'to test someone'

thank	 'to thank someone for something'

think	 'to think about something (John thought about the problem.)'

think	 'direct "speech" (John thought, "I should go to the store.")'

think	 'to think something is true (John thought that Mary went to the store.)'

think	 'to think about doing something yourself (John thought about reading the book.)'

thresh	 'to thresh something like grain or wheat'

throw	 'to throw something at someone or something with the intention to do harm (John threw a rock at the window.)'

throw	 'to throw a person or thing into or out of a place (The men threw John into a pit.  The men threw John out of the room.)'

throw	 'to throw something to someone so that they will catch it (John threw the ball to Mary.)'

throw	 'to throw something down to the ground in order to destroy it (Mary threw the plate to the floor.)'

throw-away	 'to discard something that you do not want'

tie	 'to tie someone with ropes'

tie	 'to be tied with ropes (intransitive) (John is tied with a rope.)'

tie	 'to tie or tether something to something else using a rope (John tied his dog to the tree.)'

touch	 'to physically touch someone or something'

touch	 'to come into physical contact with something (The chair touched the wall.)'

trade	 'to trade one thing for something else'

travel	 'to go from somewhere to somewhere in a generic way'

travel	 'a disease travels or spreads'

treat	 'to treat someone in some way'

treat	 'a doctor treats a sick person'

trick	 'to trick someone'

trip	 'to stumble and fall because of something'

trust	 'to trust your well-being to someone  (John trusts in God.)'

trust	 'to believe that someone is honest and will keep their word (John trusts Mary.)'

trust	 'to trust someone with something (entrust) (John trusted Mary with his money.)'

try	 'to try to do some event'

turn-around	 'to turn about 180 degrees'

understand	 'to understand something (John understood the problem.)'

understand	 'to understand an event (John understood that Mary had solved the problem.)'

understand	 'to understand how to do something (John understood how to solve the problem.'

unite	 'a person of authority causes a group of people to work together (The president united the people.)'

unite	 'someone brings one person to another person (John united Mary with Susan.)'

untie	 'to untie a rope or string'

use	 'to use something to do something'

use	 'to use illegal drugs (John used marijuana.)'

visit	 'to visit someone, stay with them for a short time'

wait	 'to wait for a period of time'

wait	 'to wait for something to happen'

wait	 'to wait for someone to arrive (John waited for Mary.)'

wake-up	 'to wake up from sleeping (intransitive) (John woke up.)'

wake-up	 'to wake someone else up (Mary woke John up.)'

walk	 'a person moves on foot (not running) to someplace'

walk	 'an animal moves on foot to some place'

walk-away	 'to walk away from someone or some place (John walked away from Mary.)'

walk-down	 'to walk down something (John walked down the mountain.)'

walk-up	 'to walk up something (John walked up the mountain.)'

wander	 'to travel aimlessly in some location'

want	 'to desire that someone else do something (John wants Mary to go to class.)'

want	 'to desire to do something yourself (John wants to go to class.)'

want	 'to want something to possess it (Mary wants a house.)'

want	 'to want or desire an abstract (John wants peace/good health/a long life/etc.)'

war	 'to wage a war with someone'

warn	 'to warn someone to do or not do something'

warn	 'to warn someone that something is about to happen'

warn	 'to warn someone about something (John warned Mary about the snake.)'

wash	 'to clean a person or body part'

wash	 'to clean something like a car (not clothes-like)'

wash	 'to wash something (clothes or similar)'

waste	 'to waste something'

watch	 'to consciously look at an event while it occurs (John watched the sun rise.)'

watch	 'to consiously look at someone or something (John watched the people.)'

wave	 'to wave something (a hand) at someone in greeting'

wear	 'to wear something (clothes)'

weigh	 'something weighs a specified amount (That rock weighs 20 kilograms.)'

weigh	 'to measure the weight of something (John weighed the apples.)'

welcome	 'complex - to greet someone kindly/warmly'

whip	 'to whip someone'

win	 'to win something (a contest, battle or war)'

wish	 'to wish or want some situation to be different from what it is (John wished that Mary was well.)'

witness	 'to witness an event'

wonder	 'to think about something and try to guess what is true.  This concept is complex but not explicated; it's always matched with 'think.'
'

work	 'generic term for performing the activity that one does for a living'

worry	 'to worry about something'

worry	 'to worry about an event (John worried that he might not pass the test.)'

worship	 'to worship something (God or a god)'

wound	 ''

wrap	 'to wrap something with something'

write	 'to write a letter or book, possibly to someone (John wrote a letter to Mary.)'

write	 'to write something (John wrote a poem/message on the wall.)'

write	 'direct quote (The king wrote, "...")'

write	 'to write about something (John wrote about his vacation.)'

write	 'indirect quote (John wrote that he would visit Mary.)'

write	 'to write a law or command'

write	 'to write one's name on something officially, to sign it (John wrote his name on the letter.)'

write	 'to write something in a book or letter (John wrote some things in that book.)'

write-down	 'to write something down (John wrote down everything the teacher said.)'

